Interpretation for ONEMILEREG:

Dependent variable X1, Independent variable x2,x3,x16

Intercept is ~4.55 which is quite high indicating s strong baseline effect in x1. For each unit
increase in x2  x1 is expected to increase by 0.055 units holding everything else
constant, this variable is statistically significant with a p-value well below 0.01, indicating a
strong positive relationship. Sadly we can not same the same thing about x3 and x16, both
of these variables are statistically insignificant implying that the X3 and X16 does not
reliably predict changes in x1. Now about how does our data fit our model  R^2 shows
that approx. 71.14% of the variability can be explained by the regression, which is not bad.
F statistic has a very low p-value meaning that this model has a significant predicttive
capability, which is our goal.

X2 the same result that we get from the fixed linear model, we have positive and
statistically significant coefficients across all models indicating that higher life expectancy
is associated with higher economic growth.

X3 the same result as in the fixed variable model, from all of these regressions we can
see that X3 is not significant in any of them, while we got close in 13 th regression with
0.08(still above 0.05 threshold). Which is not completely consistent with economic theory,
as it should say that the higher education enrollment should increase the economic
growth, this could happen because we ran too few regression and it can be influenced by
complex factors like quality of education and economic context.
X16 This is an interesting one, we got some mixed results meaning that in some
regressions like(index 8 and 11) we get statistically significant results meaning that growth
rate of population has a negative relationship between population growth and GDP growth.
Which is as crazy as it sounds in economic theory that we learned last year(Swan model)
this suggests that country’s population grows faster than its economy, which could lead to
lower GDP per capita. But in many regressions, we got that x16 is statistically insignificant,
which could happen because of other factors (like population growth may have different
effects at different stages of development depending on economic structure).
X23 We got extremely high p values with number of years of open economy, which
suggests that they are statistically insignificant, while the study found that it is positively
correlated and statistically significant. This is probably because the sample size of only 2
regressions is too little compared to the study. Completely different results than the study
because in one of my regressions I got that it is positive and in the other that it is negative,
while the results in the study were positive and statistically significant.(Mine failed to do so)
X29  Very similar results to the X23 with very high p values indicating statistically
insignificant results. Which again differs from the study. Study found that the results are
significant while my failed to do so and the coefficient I get is a lot bigger than in the study.
X31 Again high p values insignificant results, this is our first dummy variable. Which
indicates that it is not statistically significant but we can see the coefficients are negative
which makes sense that a country who has been at war will have lower GDP growth.
Study found that the results are significant while mine failed to do so and my variables are
a lot bigger.
X32  We have low p values meaning that political rights have a statistically significant
effect on GDP. But we have a negative relationship which is quite strange because we
usually believe that having more political freedoms and democratic practices within a
country would in fact boost the GDP growth. I believe that we must interpret this that while
the expansion of political freedoms might initially pose challenges to the economic growth(
if we want fair elections we have to invest a lot of money to making the elections free,
which might take away money from other parts which would help to increase the gdp
growth but in the long run having democratic leaders would in fact help the economy grow
the best example would be USA- the oldest democracy) Study found the same results but
my variable seems to have a higher impact on GDP.
X33  We have very low p values indicating a statistically significant negative relationship
between civil liberties and GDP growth. Again I believe that the explanation is similar to

the political rights one, that increasing civil liberties may cause short-term economic
adjustments, as societies navigate changes in social structures but in the long run it would
work. Study found the same result but in my results the coefficients are a lot higher.
X34 We have low p values indicating a positive and statistically significant relationship
between absolute latitude and GDP growth, suggesting that countries located further from
the equator might have a better climate for agricultural productivity, which could boost the
economy. The study found the same results, but I found that the variable affects more of
GDP and the study
X38  High p values a non-significant negative relationship between the fraction of
primary exports and GDP growth. In the study it found also negative relationship, but the
study results were significant while mine were not.
X39 Again interesting in all three regressions we get positive relationship but, not in all
the rule of law was statistically significant. In one regression was that it is very statistically
significant while one more was close to statistical significance (&gt;0.05) and the other got
very high p values indicating statistical insignificance. The study found the same positive
relationship, but I got a LOT higher values than in the study.
X4 Very high p values meaning that the sub-Saharan Africa dummy is not statistically
significant. But I get one positive coefficient and 2 negative ones while in the study it is
strictly negative indicating that if a country is in Sub-Saharan Africa it is negatively
correlated with GDP growth. (makes sense because of slavery, colonization and so on)
X41  Very high p values meaning that Exchange rate distortions are not statistically
significant. I get mixed results in the coefficients with one saying that it is a positive and
with the other saying that it is negatively correlated with GDP growth. While in the study
they found out that it was negatively correlated which makes sense.
X42 Very high p values meaning that Equipment investment is not statistically
significant. I get that it is negatively correlated with GDP growth while the study found out
that it was positively correlated with GDP growth( investing into better physical capital
usually enhances productivity leading to higher economic growth)
X43 Very very high p values meaning that Non-Equipment investment is not statistically
significant. I get that it is positevly correlated and the study found the same thing.(
Investment in intangible assets like research skills and education also usually lead to
increased economic growth)
X5 Mixed results I found that in one of the regressions that it is statistically significant but
in other that it is not, I also get that the coefficients are positive. Meaning that if a country is
in Latin America, it should boost economic growth, which is not the case in the study and
in real life as Latin America is still considered a third world region.
X50  Mixed results in one I find that it is non-significant in other that it is in fact
significant, I also get that it is positively tied to GDP growth which is not what they found in
the study.

X51  Low p values in both meaning statistically significant results. I found that if a
proportion of people who adhere to Buddhism increase the economic growth decreases.
(Negative relationship). Which again is not what the study found; they found a positive
relationship.
X52  High p values meaning statistically insignificant, and I found positive relationship
while the study found negative relationship.
X53  Mixed results but the average is that it is in fact statistically significant. Also, I found
that it is a negative relationship meaning that a higher Confucian population is associated
with lower GDP growth. In the study they found positive relationship
X56 Mixed results, two found that it is not significant while on regression found that it is
in fact significant. I also found quite big positive coefficients meaning a strong relationship.
While the study found much smaller positive coefficients.
X57  Again mixed results with religions :). I found that one of the regression is
statistically significant while other is not. But in both cases I found that the coefficients are
quite large and positive, while the study found much smaller positive values.
X59  Again mixed results about fraction of GDP mining. In one I found non- significant p-
value while in other I found significant p value. In both cases the relationship was positive
and quite large meaning that larger share of GDP coming from mining might lead to higher
economic growth rates. Which makes sense, just look at the middle east. The study also
found positive relationship but the coefficients again are a lot smaller.
X6  Black market premium I found that it is not significant in my results. I also found a
negative relationship while the study did the same. It makes sense that if the black market
premiums are higher could lead to lower confidence in economic policy so it can be
associated with lower economic growth.
X60  High p values indicating that it is not statistically significant. I found mixed results
with one regression being a negative one and the other having positive relationship. So
the effects are not clearly defined. But the study found positive relationship.
X7  I took one extra variable just for fun to check what would I get and the results were
the same with the study – statistically insignificant.

To conclude while I failed to completely replicate the study and its findings, some variables
aligned with economic theory and the study. It is important to mention that we failed to
replicate the findings because we did not run a “million” regressions, so the sample size is
a lot smaller compared to the study.